# Interfacing With Bitcoin Core

As we work our way through this course, we'll simulate operating a Lightning channel by building and *broadcasting* our very own Lightning Network transactions. To do this, we'll need to be able to interface with Bitcoin Core (which will be running in the background of this Repl) so that we can publish, mine, and obtain information about our transactions.

## Bitcoin CLI Commands

In the spirit of "you can just do things", you will be doing the hard work of interfacing with Bitcoin Core yourself - using the command line. Below, you'll find a few helpful commands that you will use as you complete the exercises in this course. Don't worry about memorizing anything now - each command will be reintroduced when necessary.

### Broadcast Raw Transaction
👉 Broadcast a raw transaction. [See documentation.](https://developer.bitcoin.org/reference/rpc/sendrawtransaction.html)
```
bitcoin-cli sendrawtransaction <raw tx hex>
```
### Decode Raw Transaction
👉 Decode a raw transaction so that it's easy to see the various inputs, outputs, and other transaction information. [See documentation.](https://developer.bitcoin.org/reference/rpc/decoderawtransaction.html)
```
bitcoin-cli decoderawtransaction <raw tx hex>
```
### Get Transaction
👉 Retrieve information about a broadcast transaction. [See documentation.](https://developer.bitcoin.org/reference/rpc/gettransaction.html?highlight=gettransaction)
```
bitcoin-cli gettransaction <tx id>
```
### Get UTXO
👉 Retrieve information about a UTXO. If no information is returned, that UTXO does not exist. [See documentation.](https://developer.bitcoin.org/reference/rpc/gettxout.html)
```
bitcoin-cli gettxout <tx id> <output index>
```

## Aliases

The Repl also comes with an alias command that we can use to mine blocks. Under the hood, this executes the [generatetoaddress](https://developer.bitcoin.org/reference/rpc/generatetoaddress.html?highlight=generatetoaddress) bitcoin-cli command, which is slightly more involved than the commands we reviewed above. Therefore, to make it easier to mine new blocks when needed, you can use the `mine` alias whenever you want to add blocks to the blockchain.

👉 Try mining a block!
```
mine 1
```
