# Channel Open

Now that Alice and Bob have created their Funding Transaction and, crucially, their **First Commitment (Refund) Transaction**, they are ready to open their channel!

Remember, Alice should not broadcast the **Funding Transaction** without having her **First Commitment (Refund) Transaction** ready first, as this would open Alice up to the risk that Bob stops responding or refuses to cooperate, effectively locking Alice's funds in this channel... forever!

Once these transactions are created, the next step is to broadcast the **Funding Transaction** to the Bitcoin network and wait for it to be included in a block. To ensure the transaction is considered (probabilistically) final and irreversible, it's standard practice to wait until the block containing the transaction has at least 6 confirmations (i.e., 6 additional blocks mined on top of it).

#### Question: Why is it best practice to wait until a Funding Transaction has 6 confirmations?

<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>

Waiting for 6 confirmations ensures that the Funding Transaction is deeply embedded in the Bitcoin blockchain, making it highly unlikely to be reversed due to a chain reorganization.

</details>

## 👉 Mine Our Funding Transaction

To get a feel for what this is like, let's mine our Funding Transaction! Go to your `transactions.txt` file and copy your **Funding Tx Hex**.

Now, go back to your shell and execute the below command, replacing `funding_tx_hex` with the **Funding Tx Hex** you just copied.
```
bitcoin-cli sendrawtransaction funding_tx_hex
```

Once it's broadcast, you should see the Tx ID returned, which is the same as the one in your `transactions.txt` file.

Now, type the below command in your shell, but replace `funding_tx_id` with your **Funding Tx ID**.
```
bitcoin-cli gettransaction funding_tx_id
```

You should see something like the below.
```
{
  "amount": -0.05000000,
  "fee": 0.00000000,
  "confirmations": 0,
....
```

**We have 0 confirmations! This isn't too surprising, considering we just broadcast the Funding Transaction. However, we want 6 confirmations before we can start operating our channel. Let's fix this!**

Try mining 6 blocks by entering the below command in your shell, and then check again!
```
mine 6
```

We should now be good to go and ready to operate our payment channel!